.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH qdtide 1 "March 2017"
.SH NAME
qdtide \- a quick-and-dirty tide clock 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdtide 
.RB [options]\ [day\ [month\ [year]]]
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIqdtide\fR is simple Linux command-line utility for 
predicting high and low times, when all the information
you have is some prior high tide time.

It works on the same principle as a traditional mechanical tide clock -- 
a clock where the hour hand makes a full cycle in 12.42 hours. Naturally
it requires calibration, and the calibration will only be useful for
a specific location and a small region around it.

Unusually for any kind of predictive technology, a tide clock is generally
more accurate on average in the long term than the short. 
In the short term, tides
are influenced by the position of the moon and the sun, and the weather.
In the long term, the moon's effect predominates and, as the lunar month
is pretty constant, the tide behaviour tends to a regular cycle.

In the short term you have to accept that a tide clock, and this program,
could easily be wrong by an hour or more.


.SH EXAMPLE

.BI qdtide\ --base\ "7 4 2017 3:15"
 
Calibrate the program by indicating that high tide was at 3:15 (AM) on
April 7th, 2017. 

.BI qdtide\ 10\ 4 

Display tide predictions for April 10th of the current year. 


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -b,\-\-base\ "DD\ MM\ YYYY\ HH:MM"
Calibrate the program with a known high tide time in the past. This
base time is stored in the file $HOME/.qdtide.rc,
and \fImust\fR be in 24-hour clock format
.LP
.TP
.BI -d,\-\-diurnal
Assume only one high and one low tide each day, rather than the more
common semi-diurnal pattern of two high and two low tides
.LP
.TP
.BI -t,\-\-tfh
Use twenty-four hour clock times for display
.LP
.TP
.BI -v,\-\-version
Display version and copyright infomation
.LP

.SH AUTHOR AND LEGAL
\fIqdtide\fR
is maintained by Kevin Boone, and is open source under the
terms of the GNU Public Licence, version 3.0. 
There is no warranty of any kind; this program should not be used
for navigation calculations.


.SH FURTHER INFORMATION 
For more details, see 
http://kevinboone.net/README_qdtide.html.


.\" end of file
